This is probably one of the more complex discussions in Geo SCADA and there is no easy answer. You really just need to test different scenarios and see what works for you, your data and the end user expectations. Using a "pull" mechanism like ODBC will always be sub-optimal to a "push" mechanism such as the new Sparkplug B Publisher in Geo SCADA 2025 due to:


1. CDBHistoric and processed historic tables (and same for events) hit the disk the first time the data is queried, and that will always be relatively very slow especially depending on the density of the data stored, the disk read speed and the order of the data within the HRD files. Subsequent reads should be quicker whilst the data is in the temporary memory cache but that data can easily get moved out to make space for the other data you're querying, the cache size and the natural cache cleanup. Compare this to CDBObject which is always memory based once loaded from disk at service startup and so is relatively much much quicker

2. You either have to store and use where you last got up to on the last query, which is an additional overhead, or always query an certain amount of time to make sure you get the required data and this can mean you query way too much data sometimes


The new Sparkplug B Publisher streams the data out when the internal "store in the historian" event is triggered in memory so if data is stored to CDBHistoric it should also go out the Publisher without going anywhere near the slow disks. I'm sure it is a little more complex than that but it hopefully gives you a good idea of the efficiency it can bring.


That said, I have done exactly what you have in your example for systems hitting 150,000 points, mostly due to at the time there being no suitable push options. Luckily the client was in C# and we could multi-thread it out to multiple Geo SCADA servers concurrently, but it was still slow.


I would suggest to keep it per id when dealing with historic, whilst you could add multiple ids you're now querying additional files (the HRD files stored on disk as per object per week, so doubling the number of ids double the number of files queried, the MWJ events are stored in batches so in this case increasing the ids can make a significant improvement with those especially if you align to the stream sizes).


Also make sure anti-virus excludes the folders with the historic HRD files in, that will make a big difference to performance too.


Other ideas that you might want to consider.


* Just slow up the processing rate if system performance is a concern, running the same query every 10 seconds versus every 10 minutes will, unless you hit the file roll-over on Sunday/Monday midnight UTC, query the same file(s) on disk and so the slow part will be much the same either way, and the processing in memory will just be different but that is usually the quick bit.

* Use OPC DA or OPC UA to get point updates and store them, this would work fairly well with Modbus style data that updates infrequently, but with DNP3 or fast data you will lose you data. Also can't backfill but if you run the OPC client on the server itself then some of that can be mitigated potentially enough for the users using the data to be happy but not achieving zero data loss.

* You could read the raw data files on disk directly however note this is probably not supported by Geo SCADA Support, you'll need to do the maths yourself, and there is potentially a timing issue if you try to read data when Geo SCADA database writes to it... but I have seen this done and it might work for you... basically using the scxcmd hisdump function you can dump the HRD files to a CSV, and then once you have the CSV you can just do what you want with that. You're still reading data from the "slow" disks rather than RAM, but you're doing it outside Geo SCADA and avoiding the processing it does which would likely allow you to extract the data much quicker.


The Sparkplug B Publisher is probably the first option to check out though if you have the new Geo SCADA, nothing is ever perfect but it does solve some of the problems with mass historic data extraction if you can set up the rest of the components to make it work.
